# Culture 
Cannibal-Fascism. British imperial communism. Orwellian ikigai. Secular Jihad.

Termite culture views concepts like "property" and "personal ambition" with overwhelming disgust and fascination. Individualism is akin to serial killer psycopathy or the radical selfishness of a psycopathic pervert serial killer e.g. Hannibal Lecter. They are ritual cannibals, but urbane enough to also enjoy eating members of other sentient species. As a treat.

Their names are what they do, followed by some descriptor of either the King or Queen, depending on if they are male or female. Worker Her-Bulging-Abdomen. Architect His-Sharp-Mandible.


| Roll | Role           | Name                             |                              |
| ---- | -------------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 1    | Worker         | His-Manly-Mandibles              |                              |
| 2    | Miner          | Her-Dainty-Legs                  |                              |
| 3    | Architect      | His-Heavy-Brow                   |                              |
| 4    | Chef-Carpenter | Her-Wise-Antennae                |                              |
| 5    | Computer       | His-Strong-Thorax                |                              |
| 6    | Auditor        | Her-Loving-Countenance           |                              |
| 7    | Soldiers       | His-Clattering-Jowels            | Does what it says on the tin |
| 8    | Gunner         | Her-Fine-Hairs                   |                              |
| 9    | Comptroller    | His-Unmentionable-Unmentionables |                              |
| 10   | Larvae         | Her-Pure-Dreams                  |                              |


## Roles

### Computer
"Computer" is a title, not an object. They communicate through TCP / IP (Trans-Computer-Pheremones / Instinctual-Programming NOTE: make a funnier backronym). Though crucial for running society, they are by far the most widely hated of all the castes. They are known to be pedantic, irritating, unreliable, sycophantic, obstinate, somehow maximally capable while being minimally competent. "Bug" is considered by termites to be a terrible slur, almost never deployed against any caste but the Computer. "Buggy" computers are liable to be dismantled and burned in the streets to great cheer.

### Soldiers
Huge heads and jaws, capable of blocking tunnels. 

### Gunner
Head mounted [fontanellar gun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fontanellar_gun). Work in squads with the soldiers. The ranged fighter. Chemical spew slows opponents.

### Auditor
Detective, almost always a gunner.

## Stats
STR: DEX: WIL: HP:
(Mice average 8.5)

|     | Type                              | Stats                                         | Inventory | Chance                     |
| --- | --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------- |
| 1   |                                   |                                               |           |                            |
| 2   | Carpenter / Builder (Worker)      | STR: d12, DEX: d10, WIL: d12, HP: 1           |           |                            |
| 3   | Miner (Worker)                    | STR: d12, DEX: d10, WIL: d12, HP: 1           |           | Royal and Worker Abilities |
| 4   | Warrior (Soldier)                 | STR: 2d8, DEX: d18, WIL: d12, HP: d8 Armor: 1 |           | Warrior Abilities          |
| 5   | Gunner (Soldier)                  | STR: d12, DEX: 2d8, WIL: d12, HP: d6          |           |                            |
| 6   | Winged (Royal / Nymphal)          | STR: d12, DEX: 2d8, WIL: 2d8, HP: d6 Armor: 1 |           |                            |

### Carpenter / Builder (Worker)
Able to craft out of wood and dig, probably this should be formalized and explored more as a hex thing.
### Miner (Worker)
Able to change weights of things and dig.
### Warrior (Soldier)
Natural armor and weapons
### Gunner (Soldier)
Fires natural weapon that does d6 but adds status effect as item, once you have 3 you cannot run, you become encumbered.
### Winged (Royal / Nymphal)
Able to reproduce, become new kings and queens. Killed by the current administration.

# Bits
## Cafes
Cafes and teahouses are a core feature of the Mound. Termites do not have time for alcohol.
Worker gesturing to a cafe: "You know, the coffee there tastes like sawdust", his friend: "Ooh, you know I keep hearing good things about that place, I've been meaning to go sometime".
## Newspulp
Headine: "THE TRUTH ABOUT THE QUEEN" text: "She's great!". 
Headline: "GHASTLY CANNIBALISM CASE IN THE FUNGAL FARMS" text: "Staff Spore Distributor Worker Her-Clear-Eyes eaten by group of Senior Spore Distributors ahead of mass retirement ceremony *despite* having living bunkmates. Investigation by Auditor Her-Loving-Countenance found that the Juniors were not aware of the living bunkmates, thus they were unaware they were violating the ancient rights of PRIMA DIBUCAINE (first dibs). The King ruled that the offending parties should be able allowed to proceed with retirement as usual, but afterwards they will be used as compost to enrich the Fungal Farms to which they have brought shame, rather than be served honorably at the Retirement Feast. Lawyer His-Nimble-Appendages called it 'a stunning ruling, perfectly balancing infinite mercy and infinite cruelty, another in a long line of perfect decisions from his Majesty."